.TH  "samba_selinux"  "8"  "17 Jan 2005" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "Samba Selinux Policy documentation"
.SH "NAME"
samba_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for Samba
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the Samba server via flexible mandatory access
control.
.SH FILE_CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type.
Policy governs the access daemons have to these files.
If you want to share files other than home directories, those files must be
labeled samba_share_t.  So if you created a special directory /var/eng, you
would need to label the directory with the chcon tool.
.TP
chcon -t samba_share_t /var/eng
.TP
To make this change permanent (survive a relabel), use the semanage command to add the change to file context configuration:
.TP
semanage fcontext -a -t samba_share_t "/var/eng(/.*)?"
.TP
This command adds the following entry to /etc/selinux/POLICYTYPE/contexts/files/file_contexts.local:
.TP
/var/eng(/.*)? system_u:object_r:samba_share_t:s0
.TP
Run the restorecon command to apply the changes:
.TP
restorecon -R -v /var/eng/

.SH SHARING FILES
If you want to share files with multiple domains (Apache, FTP, rsync, Samba), you can set a file context of public_content_t and public_content_rw_t.  These context allow any of the above domains to read the content.  If you want a particular domain to write to the public_content_rw_t domain, you must set the appropriate boolean.  allow_DOMAIN_anon_write.  So for samba you would execute:

setsebool -P allow_smbd_anon_write=1

.SH BOOLEANS
.br
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  So by
default SELinux policy turns off SELinux sharing of home directories and
the use of Samba shares from a remote machine as a home directory.
.TP
If you are setting up this machine as a Samba server and wish to share the home directories, you need to set the samba_enable_home_dirs boolean.
.br

setsebool -P samba_enable_home_dirs 1
.TP
If you want to use a remote Samba server for the home directories on this machine, you must set the use_samba_home_dirs boolean.
.br

setsebool -P use_samba_home_dirs 1
.TP
system-config-selinux is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), samba(7), chcon(1), setsebool(8), semanage(8)
